---
title: About the project
description: About the Classica.Plus project

---
ClassicaPlus is a Moscow-based chamber ensemble and represents an innovative approach to classical and contemporary music performances for audiences of a modern city. ClassicaPlus has been playing as a unit since 2012 and has been gaining recognition ever since for promoting ideas of integration, openness and going beyond the conventional performance standards. The team consists of graduates of Moscow and St.Petersburg Conservatories who are prize-winners and laureates of numerous international competitions. Their stage partners include Daniel Schnyder (Switzerland/USA), Norbert Girlinger (Austria), Arkady Shilkloper (Russia).

ClassicaPlus successfully cooperates with concert venues in Russia and abroad, including Halls of Tchaikovsky Moscow State Conservatory, Moscow Philharmonic, Pushkin State Museum of Visual Art, Glinka Russian National Museum of Music, House of Composers, House of Music, Moscow Centre of Arts, memorial apartment-museum of Svyatoslav Richter, Lutheran Evangelical Cathedral of Saints Peter and Paul and Brucknerhaus, Linz. ClassicaPlus closely collaborates with Russian contemporary composers P.Karmanov, A.Kurbatov, O.Paiberdin, D.Kurlyandskiy to name but a few. At the core of the team are its founders and longstanding partners Natalia Zhukova (flute), Evgenia Boginskaya (cello) and Valeria Prokusheva (piano).

**Natalia Zhukova (flute)** is a graduate of the N.A. Rimsky - Korsakov St. Petersburg State Conservatory (class of Olga Chernjadjewa) and holds an honors Masters degree from Anton Bruckner Privatuniversität, Linz, Austria (class of Professor Norbert Girlinger). Natalia has played in orchestras in Russia and internationally, including the State Academic Russian Folk Ensemble of L.Zykina, NSO Symphony orchestra (UAE), ECSO Symphonic orchestra and has performed with Andrea Bocelli at “Winter at Tantora”. Natalia has collaborated with many prominent musicians such as Anastasia Gromoglasova, Rony Rogoff at NYAD Art Centre and has inspired many Russian premieres of music of foreign composers, including works of Daniel Schnyder, Jennifer Higdon, and Tiziano Bedetti. Natalia is the founder of ClassicaPlus.

**Evgenia Boginskaya (cello)** graduated with honors from Tchaikovsky Moscow State Conservatory (class of Professor Igor Gavrysh) in 2016. She is a laureate of numerous Russian and international competitions and a recipient of the Governor's Scholarship for the Kaliningrad region. Evgenia was a principal cellist of Moskovia, Moscow Conservatory’s chamber orchestra and has been playing cello in Kostroma Symphony Orchestra since 2016. Evgenia performs as a soloist, most recently presenting music by O.Afanasiev at the Great Hall of Tchaikovsky Moscow Conservatory. Evgenia is an artist of the Russian National Youth Symphony Orchestra.

**Valeria Prokusheva (piano)** is a graduate of Tchaikovsky Moscow State Conservatory (class of Professor Yury Ayrapetyan and Ekaterina Ledeneva). Valeria has performed both solo and in chamber ensembles in the most prestigious concert halls, including the Great Hall of Tchaikovsky Moscow Conservatory, Moscow Philharmonic, Berlin Philharmonic and has performed in the Red Square in Moscow. She has performed a number of world and Russian premiers, most recently the compositions by Oleg Paiberdin in the Moscow Philharmonic. Valeria is a musical artist of the Moscow Sovremennik Theatre (Moscow Contemporary Theatre).

In 2019 was made a short film “Trio” (dir. Igor Chekin), with ClassicaPlus featuring the music of Pavel Karmanov “Birthday present for myself”. The film participated, was nominated and awarded in many festivals (Slovakia, USA, Canada, England, Belgium, Italy, India, UAE).
The film premiered in 2019 in the New Tretyakov Gallery, on Movie Night 2019, Moscow.
